# Simulation Output Overview

In this section we define and provide an overview of the output generated by a
DQMC simulation performed using the [SmoQyDQMC.jl](https://github.com/SmoQySuite/SmoQyDQMC.jl) package.

## Output Data Folder Structure

Each simulation performed with [SmoQyDQMC.jl](https://github.com/SmoQySuite/SmoQyDQMC.jl) will generate a directory
with a user defined name that all the output of the simulation will be written to. Here we will simply refer to
this top-level directory as the `datafolder`, but again, the user may call it whatever they like.
Inside the `datafolder` a set of files and folders resembling the structure outlined below will be found:

- `[datafolder]`: 
  - `model_summary.toml`: A TOML file that describes the Hamiltonian that was simulated, and defines the various types of IDs that measurements are reported in terms of.
  - `simulation_info_pID*_sID*.toml`: A TOML file reporting basic information about the simulation, including the version of Julia and [SmoQyDQMC.jl](https://github.com/SmoQySuite/SmoQyDQMC.jl) that was used to run the simulation. An `[additional_info]` table contains the contents of a user defined dictionary as well. One such file is generated for each `pID` MPI rank if multiple simulations are being performed in parallel using MPI.
  - `global_stats.csv`: CSV file containing final average and error for all global measurements.
  - `local_stats.csv`: CSV file containing final average and error for all local measurements.
  - `[global]`: Directory contained binned global measurements written as binary JDL2 files.
    - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
    - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
    - `...`
  - `[local]`: Directory contained binned local measurements written as binary JDL2 files.
    - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
    - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
    - `...`
  - `[equal-time]`: Top-level directory containing all equal-time correlation function measurement results.
    - `[density]`: As an example, directory containing equal-time density-density correlations.
      - `density_momentum_equal-time_stats.csv`: CSV file containing average and error for density-density correlation in momentum space.
      - `density_position_equal-time_stats.csv`: CSV file containing average and error for density-density correlation in position space.
      - `[momentum]`: Directory containing binned momentum space density-density correlation data as binary JLD2 files.
        - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
        - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
        - `...`
      - `[position]`: Directory containing binned position space density-density correlation data as binary JLD2 files.
        - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
        - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
        - `...`
    - `[...]`
  - `[time-displaced]`: Top-level directory containing all time-displaced correlation function measurement results.
    - `[greens]`
      - `greens_momentum_equal-time_stats.csv`
      - `greens_position_equal-time_stats.csv`
      - `[momentum]`
        - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
        - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
        - `...`
      - `[position]`
        - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
        - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
        - `...`
    - `[...]`
  - `[integrated]`: Top-level directory containing all integrated correlation function measurement results.
    - `[density]`
      - `density_momentum_integrated_stats.csv`
      - `density_position_integrated_stats.csv`
      - `[momentum]`
        - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
        - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
        - `...`
      - `[position]`
        - `bin-1_pID-0.jld2`
        - `bin-2_pID-0.jld2`
        - `...`
    - `[...]`

## Model Summary

The function [`model_summary`](@ref) is used to a TOML file named `model_summary.toml` that full describes
and parameterizes the Hamiltonian simulated in a DQMC simulation using [`SmoQyDQMC.jl`](https://github.com/SmoQySuite/SmoQyDQMC.jl).
Significantly, this method also defines the types of IDs
(`ORBITAL_ID`, `BOND_ID`, `HOPPING_ID`, `PHONON_ID`, `HOLSTEIN_ID`, `SSH_ID`, `DISPERSION_ID`) that
the various measurements are reported in terms of. The type of ID used to report correlation and local measurements are recorded in
the exported dictionaries [`CORRELATION_FUNCTIONS`](@ref) and [`LOCAL_MEASUREMENTS`](@ref).

## Uncertainty Reporting Conventions

The average value ``\bar{C}`` for any measured expectation value ``\langle C \rangle`` is reported as a complex number in all  `*_stats.csv` files,
even if it is known formally to be a strictly real quantity.
On the other hand, the error, or standard deviation, associated with each measurement is reported as a strictly positive real number such that
the error associated with the complex expectation value ``\langle C \rangle`` is given by ``\Delta C = \sqrt{\Delta C_{\rm Re}^2 + \Delta C_{\rm Im}^2}``.

## Global Measurements

At the end of a simulation once the measurements are processed using the [`process_measurements`](@ref)
method, a file `global_stats.csv` file is created that contains the final estimates and errors for all "global" measurements.
The corresponding binned global data is stored as binary JLD2 files in the directory `global` inside the simulation directory.
We define each global measurement below.

- `sgn`: The average sign ``\mathcal{S} = \langle {\rm sign}( \det G_\uparrow \cdot \det G_\downarrow ) \rangle``.
- `sgndetGup`: The average spin-up sign ``\mathcal{S}_\uparrow = \langle {\rm sign}(\det G_\uparrow) \rangle``.
- `sgndetGdn`: The average spin-up sign ``\mathcal{S}_\downarrow = \langle {\rm sign}(\det G_\downarrow) \rangle``.
- `density`: Average global total charge density ``\langle n \rangle = \langle n_\uparrow \rangle + \langle n_\downarrow \rangle``.
- `density_up`: Average global spin-up charge density ``\langle n_\uparrow \rangle``.
- `density_dn`: Average global spin-down charge density ``\langle n_\downarrow \rangle``.
- `double_occ`: Average global double occupancy ``\langle n_\uparrow n_\downarrow \rangle``.
- `Nsqrd`: Expectation value for total electron number squared ``\langle N^2 \rangle``, where ``\hat{N} = \sum_{\sigma,\mathbf{i},\nu} \hat{n}_{\sigma, \mathbf{i}, \nu}``.
- `chemical_potential`: The measured chemical potential ``\mu``.
- `compressibility`: The measured compressibility ``\kappa = \frac{d \langle n \rangle}{d \mu} = \frac{\beta}{\mathcal{N}}\left( \langle N^2 \rangle - \langle N \rangle^2 \right)``.

## Local Measurement

At the end of a simulation once the measurements are processed using the [`process_measurements`](@ref)
method, a file `local_stats.csv` file is created that contains the final estimates and errors for all "local" measurements.
The corresponding binned local data is stored as binary JLD2 files in the directory `local` inside the simulation directory.
All "local" measurements are reported in terms of an ID type, defined in the `model_summary.toml` file generated by
the [`model_summary`](@ref) function. The definition for each local measurement that may be reported,
including the type of ID it is reported in terms of, is defined below.

- `density`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The charge density ``\langle n_{\nu} \rangle = \langle n_{\uparrow,\nu} \rangle + \langle n_{\downarrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.
- `density_up`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The spin-up charge density ``\langle n_{\uparrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.
- `density_dn`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The spin-down charge density ``\langle n_{\downarrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.
- `double_occ`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The double-occupance ``\langle n_{\uparrow,\nu} n_{\downarrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.

### Local Tight-Binding Measurements

- `onsite_energy`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The total on-site energy ``\sum_\sigma (\epsilon_{\sigma,\nu} - \mu) \langle n_{\sigma,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.
- `onsite_energy_up`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The spin-up on-site energy ``(\epsilon_{\uparrow,\nu} - \mu) \langle n_{\uparrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.
- `onsite_energy_dn`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The spin-down on-site energy ``(\epsilon_{\downarrow,\nu} - \mu) \langle n_{\downarrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.
- `bare_hopping_energy`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The bare hopping energy ``-\sum_{\sigma} \langle t_{\sigma,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)} c^\dagger_{\sigma,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} c^{\phantom\dagger}_{\sigma,\mathbf{i},\gamma} + {\rm h.c.} \rangle`` for a hopping connecting orbitals ``\gamma`` and ``\nu`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells, where ``t_{(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}`` is the bare hopping amplitude.
- `bare_hopping_energy_up`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The bare spin-up hopping energy ``-\langle t_{\uparrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)} c^\dagger_{\uparrow,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} c^{\phantom\dagger}_{\uparrow,\mathbf{i},\gamma} + {\rm h.c.} \rangle`` for a hopping connecting orbitals ``\gamma`` and ``\nu`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells, where ``t_{\sigma,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}`` is the bare hopping amplitude.
- `bare_hopping_energy_dn`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The bare spin-up hopping energy ``-\langle t_{\downarrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)} c^\dagger_{\downarrow,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} c^{\phantom\dagger}_{\downarrow,\mathbf{i},\gamma} + {\rm h.c.} \rangle`` for a hopping connecting orbitals ``\gamma`` and ``\nu`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells, where ``t_{\downarrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}`` is the bare hopping amplitude.
- `hopping_energy`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The total hopping energy ``-\sum_{\sigma} \langle t_{l,\sigma,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)} c^\dagger_{\sigma,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} c^{\phantom\dagger}_{\sigma,\mathbf{i},\gamma} + {\rm h.c.} \rangle`` for a hopping connecting orbitals ``\gamma`` and ``\nu`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells, where ``t_{l,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}`` is the modulated hopping amplitude.
- `hopping_energy_up`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The spin-up hopping energy ``-\langle t_{l,\uparrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)} c^\dagger_{\uparrow,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} c^{\phantom\dagger}_{\uparrow,\mathbf{i},\gamma} + {\rm h.c.} \rangle`` for a hopping connecting orbitals ``\gamma`` and ``\nu`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells, where ``t_{l,\sigma,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}`` is the modulated hopping amplitude.
- `hopping_energy_dn`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The spin-up hopping energy ``-\langle t_{l,\downarrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)} c^\dagger_{\downarrow,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} c^{\phantom\dagger}_{\downarrow,\mathbf{i},\gamma} + {\rm h.c.} \rangle`` for a hopping connecting orbitals ``\gamma`` and ``\nu`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells, where ``t_{l,\downarrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}`` is the modulated hopping amplitude.
- `hopping_amplitude`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The average hopping amplitude ``\frac{1}{2 N} \sum_{\sigma,\mathbf{i}} \langle t_{\sigma,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}\rangle``.
- `hopping_amplitude_up`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The average spin-up hopping amplitude ``\frac{1}{N} \sum_{\mathbf{i}} \langle t_{\uparrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}\rangle``.
- `hopping_amplitude_dn`: (`HOPPING_ID`) The average spin-down hopping amplitude ``\frac{1}{N} \sum_{\mathbf{i}} \langle t_{\downarrow,(\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu),(\mathbf{i},\gamma)}\rangle``.
- `hopping_inversion`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Fraction of the time the overall sign of the total hopping amplitude is inverted as a result of interactions, without first averaging the hopping amplitude over imaginary time.
- `hopping_inversion_up`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Fraction of the time the overall sign of the spin-up hopping amplitude is inverted as a result of interactions, without first averaging the hopping amplitude over imaginary time.
- `hopping_inversion_dn`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Fraction of the time the overall sign of the spin-down hopping amplitude is inverted as a result of interactions, without first averaging the hopping amplitude over imaginary time.
- `hopping_inversion_avg`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Fraction of the time the overall sign of the total hopping amplitude is inverted as a result of interactions, as calculated after first averaging the hopping amplitude over imaginary time.
- `hopping_inversion_avg_up`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Fraction of the time the overall sign of the spin-up hopping amplitude is inverted as a result of interactions, as calculated after first averaging the hopping amplitude over imaginary time.
- `hopping_inversion_avg_dn`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Fraction of the time the overall sign of the spin-down hopping amplitude is inverted as a result of interactions,as calculated after first averaging the hopping amplitude over imaginary time.

### Local Hubbard Measurements

- `hubbard_energy`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) The Hubbard interaction energy ``U_{\nu} \langle n_{\uparrow,\nu} n_{\downarrow,\nu} \rangle`` for orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.

### Local Phonon Measurements

- `phonon_kin_energy`: (`PHONON_ID`) The phonon kinetic energy ``\frac{1}{2 M_{n_{\nu}}} \langle P_{n_{\nu}}^2 \rangle`` for phonon mode ``n_{\nu}`` in unit cell.
- `phonon_pot_energy`: (`PHONON_ID`) The phonon potential energy ``\frac{1}{2}M_{n_{\nu}}\Omega_{0,n_{\nu}}^2\langle X_{n_{\nu}}^2 \rangle + \frac{1}{24}M_{n_{\nu}}\Omega_{a,n_{\nu}}^2\langle X_{n_{\nu}}^4 \rangle`` for phonon mode ``n_{\nu}`` in unit cell.
- `X`: (`PHONON_ID`): The expecation values ``\langle X_{n_\nu} \rangle`` for phonon mode ``n_{\nu}`` in unit cell.
- `X2`: (`PHONON_ID`): The expecation values ``\langle X_{n_\nu}^2 \rangle`` for phonon mode ``n_{\nu}`` in unit cell.
- `X3`: (`PHONON_ID`): The expecation values ``\langle X_{n_\nu}^3 \rangle`` for phonon mode ``n_{\nu}`` in unit cell.
- `X4`: (`PHONON_ID`): The expecation values ``\langle X_{n_\nu}^4 \rangle`` for phonon mode ``n_{\nu}`` in unit cell.
- `dispersion_energy`: (`DISPERSION_ID`) The dispersion energy ``\langle \mathcal{U}_{{\rm disp.}, (\mathbf{r}, n_\nu, n_\gamma)} \rangle`` between the two phonon models ``n_\nu`` and ``n_\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells from eachother.

### Local Electron-Phonon Interaction Measurements

- `holstein_energy`: (`HOLSTEIN_ID`) The total Holstein interaction energy ``\langle \hat{\mathcal{V}}_{{\rm hol}, n_{\mathbf{i},\nu}, (\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\gamma)} \rangle`` between a phonon mode ``n_{\mathbf{i},\nu}`` and total charge density on orbital ``\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells away.
- `holstein_energy_up`: (`HOLSTEIN_ID`) The spin-up Holstein interaction energy ``\langle \hat{\mathcal{V}}_{{\rm hol}, \uparrow, n_{\mathbf{i},\nu}, (\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\gamma)} \rangle`` between a phonon mode ``n_{\mathbf{i},\nu}`` and the spin-``\uparrow`` density on orbital ``\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells away.
- `holstein_energy_dn`: (`HOLSTEIN_ID`) The spin-down Holstein interaction energy ``\langle \hat{\mathcal{V}}_{{\rm hol}, \downarrow, n_{\mathbf{i},\nu}, (\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\gamma)} \rangle`` between a phonon mode ``n_{\mathbf{i},\nu}`` and the spin-``\downarrow`` on orbital ``\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells away.
- `ssh_energy`: (`SSH_ID`) The total SSH interaction enery ``\langle \mathcal{K}_{{\rm ssh},(n_{\mathbf{i},\nu},n_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\gamma})}\rangle`` between phonon modes ``n_\nu`` and ``n_\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells from eachother.
- `ssh_energy_up`: (`SSH_ID`) The spin-up SSH interaction enery ``\langle \mathcal{K}_{{\rm ssh},\uparrow,(n_{\mathbf{i},\nu},n_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\gamma})}\rangle`` between phonon modes ``n_\nu`` and ``n_\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells from eachother.
- `ssh_energy_dn`: (`SSH_ID`) The spin-down SSH interaction enery ``\langle \mathcal{K}_{{\rm ssh},\downarrow,(n_{\mathbf{i},\nu},n_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\gamma})}\rangle`` between phonon modes ``n_\nu`` and ``n_\gamma`` displaced ``\mathbf{r}`` unit cells from eachother.

## Correlation Function Measurements

Three types of correlation functions are reported by [SmoQyDQMC.jl](https://github.com/SmoQySuite/SmoQyDQMC.jl) package.
Let ``\hat{O}_{\mathbf{i},\nu}`` represent some operator associated with unit cell ``\mathbf{i}`` and ID index ``\nu``.
For instance, in the case of a density-density correlation, ``\nu`` corresponds to an `ORBITAL_ID` index.
The first type of correlation that may be reported are `equal-time` correlation function of the form
```math
C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{r}) = \frac{1}{N} \sum_{\mathbf{i}} \langle O^{\dagger}_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu} O^{\phantom\dagger}_{\mathbf{i},\gamma} \rangle
```
in `position` space, where the sum over ``\mathbf{i}`` runs over all unit cells, and ``\mathbf{r}`` represents a displacement in
unit cells. The corresponding `equal-time` correlation function in `momentum` space is given by
```math
C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{q}) = \sum_\mathbf{r} e^{-{\rm i}\mathbf{q}\cdot(\mathbf{r}+\mathbf{r}_\nu-\mathbf{r}_\gamma)} C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{r}),
```
where ``\mathbf{r}_\nu`` and ``\mathbf{r}_\gamma`` are static displacement vector associated with the operators ``\hat{O}_{\mathbf{i},\nu}`` and ``\hat{O}_{\mathbf{i},\gamma}``. For instance, in the case of the density-density correlation, ``\mathbf{r}_\nu`` is the location of the orbital ``\nu`` in the unit cell.

The second type of correlation function is the `time-displaced` correlation function in `position` space is given by
```math
C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{r},\tau) = \frac{1}{N} \sum_{\mathbf{i}} \langle O^{\dagger}_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu}(\tau) O^{\phantom\dagger}_{\mathbf{i},\gamma}(0) \rangle,
```
and in `momentum` space by
```math
C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{q},\tau) = \sum_\mathbf{r} e^{-{\rm i}\mathbf{q}\cdot(\mathbf{r}+\mathbf{r}_\nu-\mathbf{r}_\gamma)} C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{r},\tau).
```
The last type is the `integrated` correlation functions in `position` space, given by
```math
\chi_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{r}) = \int_0^\beta d\tau \ C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{r},\tau),
```
and in `momentum` space by
```math
\chi_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{q}) = \int_0^\beta d\tau \ C_{\nu,\gamma}(\mathbf{q},\tau).
```

### [Displacement Vector and Momentum Reporting Conventions](@id vector_reporting_conventions)

Consider a ``D`` dimensional finite periodic lattice, where ``\mathbf{a}_d`` and ``\mathbf{b}_d`` denote the corresponding lattice vectors and reciprocal lattice vectors, where ``d \in [1,D]``.
The extent of the lattice in unit cells in the direction of each of the lattice vectors is denoted by ``L_d``.
Given these definitions, the displacement vectors are parametetized as
```math
\mathbf{r} = \sum_{d=1}^D \left( \frac{\mathtt{R\_d}}{L_d} \right) \mathbf{a}_d,
```
and then reported in terms of the set of integers ``\mathtt{R\_d} \in [0, L_d)``.
Similarly, the set of ``\mathbf{k}``-points associated with the finite lattice are given by
```math
\mathbf{k} = \sum_{d=1}^D \left( \frac{\mathtt{K\_d}}{L_d} \right) \mathbf{b}_d
```
and then reported in term of the set of integers ``\mathtt{K\_d} \in [0, L_d)``.

### Correlation Function Reporting Conventions

In addition to reporting the set of integers ``\mathtt{R\_d} \ (\mathtt{K\_d})`` used to define correlation functions in position (momentum) space, they are also identified by an ID pair ``(\mathtt{*\_ID\_2}, \mathtt{*\_ID\_1})`` specifying the subscripts ``\nu`` and ``\gamma``. Lastly, `time-displaced` correlation functions also report the displacement in imaginary time, given as an integer ``\mathtt{TAU} \in [0, L_\tau]`` such that ``\tau = \Delta\tau \cdot \mathtt{TAU}`` where ``\beta = \Delta\tau \cdot L_\tau``.

### Defined Correlation Functions

In this section we review the various correlation measurements that the [SmoQyDQMC.jl](https://github.com/SmoQySuite/SmoQyDQMC.jl)
package currently supports.

- `greens`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) Measures spin averaged [single-particle electron Green's functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.greens!)
- `greens_up`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) Measures spin-up [single-particle electron Green's functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.greens!).
- `greens_dn`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) Measures spin-down [single-particle electron Green's functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.greens!).
- `density`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) Measures [total density correlation functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.density_correlation!)
- `spin_z`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) Measures [spin-z correlation functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.spin_z_correlation!)
- `spin_x`: (`ORBITAL_ID`) Measures [spin-z correlation functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.spin_x_correlation!)
- `pair`: (`BOND_ID`) Measures [pair correlation functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.pair_correlation!)
- `bond`: (`BOND_ID`) Measures [bond correlation functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.bond_correlation!)
- `current`: (`HOPPING_ID`) Measures [current correlation functions.](https://smoqysuite.github.io/JDQMCMeasurements.jl/stable/api/#JDQMCMeasurements.current_correlation!)
- `phonon_greens`: (`PHONON_ID`) Measures phonon Green's functions, parameterized as the phonon position correlation function. The position space definition is given below, with ``n_\alpha`` and ``n_\gamma`` specifying phonon modes associated with orbitals ``\alpha`` and ``\gamma`` in the unit cell respectively.
```math
\mathcal{D}_{\mathbf{r}}^{n_\alpha, n_\gamma}(\tau) = \frac{1}{N} \sum_\mathbf{i} \langle \hat{X}_{n_\alpha,\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r}}(\tau) \hat{X}_{n_\gamma,\mathbf{i}}(0) \rangle.
```

### Composite Correlation Measurements

Lastly, with the [`initialize_composite_correlation_measurement!`](@ref) it is possible to make user named composite correlation measurements, defined
by a linear combination of one of the above correlation measuremesnts of the form
```math
\hat{O}_\mathbf{i} = \sum_\nu c_\nu \hat{O}_{\mathbf{i},\nu},
```
where ``c_\nu`` are user-specified (complex or real) coefficients.
Note that all cross-terms are automatically expanded out when making the composite correlation measurement, by which we mean that
```math
\langle \hat{O}^{\dagger}_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r}}(\tau) \hat{O}^{\phantom\dagger}_{\mathbf{i}}(0)  \rangle
= \sum_{\nu',\nu} c_{\nu'}^{*} c_\nu^{\phantom *} \langle \hat{O}^{\dagger}_{\mathbf{i}+\mathbf{r},\nu'}(\tau) \hat{O}^{\phantom\dagger}_{\mathbf{i},\nu}(0)  \rangle
```
is measured.
Note that the ID pair ``(\mathtt{*\_ID\_2}, \mathtt{*\_ID\_1})`` columns are omitted from the composite correlation CSV stat files generated
at the end of a simulation.